---
title: "Two-factor authentication"
---

AppSignal provides *two-factor authentication* (2FA) to add an extra level of security to your account. Besides using your email address and password, enabling 2FA requires you to enter a one-time password code whenever you sign in. The code is automatically generated by an application on your phone.

## Enabling two-factor authentication

1. Download an authenticator application on your phone. We recommend [Google Authenticator](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/1066447?hl=en) for Android and iOS users.
2. Visit the [security page](https://appsignal.com/users/security) and click the "Enable two-factor authentication"-button.
3. Scan the QR code shown on the next page with your authenticator application on your phone.
4. Enter the six-digit code from the application and press "Enable two-factor authentication".
5. 2FA is now enabled. Don't forget to save the backup codes in a safe location. You can use them to sign into AppSignal if you ever lose your phone.

## Disabling two-factor authentication

1. Visit the [security page](https://appsignal.com/users/security) and click the "Disable two-factor authentication"-button.
2. You can now remove AppSignal from your authenticator application on your phone

## Regenerating backup codes

You can use a backup code to sign into your account when you lose access to your phone.

We show the backup codes once after enabling 2FA for your account. If you lose your backup codes, you can regenerate them on the security page. The newly generated backup codes invalidate and replace any existing ones.

1. Visit the [security page](https://appsignal.com/users/security) and click the "Regenerate backup codes"-button.
2. Save the backup codes in a safe location. You can use them to sign into AppSignal if you ever lose your phone.
